docs/HOTAISLE_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# Hot Aisle Integration for GPU Testing

This document describes the integration between GPU Kill and Hot Aisle's infrastructure for automated GPU testing in CI/CD pipelines.

## Overview

The Hot Aisle integration enables GPU Kill to run comprehensive tests on real GPU hardware by:

1. **Provisioning GPU instances** on-demand via Hot Aisle's API
2. **Running GPU tests** on actual hardware (NVIDIA, AMD, Intel, Apple Silicon)
3. **Automated cleanup** to minimize costs
4. **Comprehensive reporting** of test results

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   GitHub        │    │   Hot Aisle     │    │   GPU Hardware  │
│   Actions       │◄──►│   API           │◄──►│   (NVIDIA/AMD)  │
│   (CI/CD)       │    │   (Backend)     │    │   (Intel/Apple) │
└─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
```

## Components

### 1. Hot Aisle API Client (`src/hotaisle_client.rs`)

Rust client for interacting with Hot Aisle's API:

```rust
use gpukill::hotaisle_client::{HotAisleClient, GpuInstanceConfig};

let client = HotAisleClient::new(api_key, None);

let config = GpuInstanceConfig {
    gpu_type: "nvidia".to_string(),
    duration_minutes: 30,
    instance_type: Some("g4dn.xlarge".to_string()),
    labels: Some(vec!["ci-test".to_string()]),
};

let instance = client.provision_gpu_instance(config).await?;
```

### 2. GPU Test Script (`scripts/run-gpu-tests.sh`)

Comprehensive test script that runs on provisioned instances:

- **GPU Detection Tests**: Verify GPU enumeration and information retrieval
- **Vendor-Specific Tests**: NVIDIA (nvidia-smi), AMD (rocm-smi, amd-smi), Intel (intel_gpu_top)
- **Performance Tests**: Run GPU hardware tests and benchmarks
- **Stress Tests**: Multiple iterations to ensure reliability
- **Report Generation**: Detailed test reports with system information

### 3. GitHub Actions Workflow (`.github/workflows/hotaisle-gpu-testing.yml`)

Automated CI/CD pipeline that:

- **Provisions GPU instances** based on matrix strategy
- **Deploys GPU Kill** to instances
- **Runs comprehensive tests** on real hardware
- **Collects results** and uploads artifacts
- **Cleans up instances** automatically

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Hot Aisle API Key

Add your Hot Aisle API key to GitHub Secrets:

```bash
# In your GitHub repository settings:
# Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions → New repository secret
# Name: HOTAISLE_API_KEY
# Value: your-hotaisle-api-key
```

### 2. Configure GPU Types

The workflow supports testing multiple GPU types:

```yaml
# Default configuration
matrix:
  gpu_type: [nvidia, amd, intel]

# Manual dispatch with custom GPU types
# Use workflow_dispatch with inputs:
# gpu_types: "nvidia,amd,intel,apple-silicon"
```

### 3. Test Duration

Configure test duration to balance thoroughness with cost:

```yaml
# Default: 30 minutes
# Can be overridden via workflow_dispatch
test_duration: "30"  # minutes
```

## Usage

### Automatic Testing

GPU tests run automatically on:
- **Main branch** pushes
- **Develop branch** pushes
- **Pull requests** to main branch

### Manual Testing

Trigger tests manually via GitHub Actions:

1. Go to **Actions** tab in your repository
2. Select **Hot Aisle GPU Testing** workflow
3. Click **Run workflow**
4. Configure parameters:
   - **GPU types**: Comma-separated list (e.g., `nvidia,amd,intel`)
   - **Test duration**: Minutes (e.g., `30`)

### Local Testing

Test the integration locally:

```bash
# Build GPU Kill
cargo build --release

# Run GPU tests (requires GPU hardware)
./scripts/run-gpu-tests.sh nvidia
```

## Supported GPU Types

| GPU Type | Tools Used | Tests |
|----------|------------|-------|
| **NVIDIA** | nvidia-smi, NVML | GPU enumeration, memory, utilization, temperature, power |
| **AMD** | rocm-smi, amd-smi | GPU enumeration, memory, utilization, temperature, power |
| **Intel** | intel_gpu_top | GPU enumeration, utilization, memory estimation |
| **Apple Silicon** | system_profiler | GPU enumeration, memory usage, Metal processes |

## Cost Optimization

### 1. Instance Lifecycle Management

- **Automatic provisioning** only when needed
- **Immediate cleanup** after tests complete
- **Timeout protection** to prevent runaway costs

### 2. Test Duration Control

- **Configurable duration** (default: 30 minutes)
- **Fast failure** for quick feedback
- **Comprehensive testing** when needed

### 3. Resource Efficiency

- **Parallel testing** across GPU types
- **Shared infrastructure** via Hot Aisle
- **No always-on runners** required

## Test Results

### Artifacts

Each test run produces:

- **Test Output Log**: Detailed execution logs
- **Test Report**: Comprehensive system and GPU information
- **Retention**: 30 days for debugging

### Metrics

Tests measure:

- **GPU Detection**: Number of GPUs found
- **Information Retrieval**: JSON validity and completeness
- **Performance**: Test execution time
- **Reliability**: Stress test success rate

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Instance Provisioning Fails**
   - Check Hot Aisle API key validity
   - Verify GPU type availability
   - Check Hot Aisle service status

2. **SSH Connection Issues**
   - Verify instance IP address
   - Check SSH key generation
   - Ensure instance is ready

3. **Test Failures**
   - Review test output logs
   - Check GPU driver installation
   - Verify tool availability (nvidia-smi, rocm-smi, etc.)

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging:

```bash
export RUST_LOG=debug
export RUST_BACKTRACE=1
```

## API Reference

### HotAisleClient

```rust
impl HotAisleClient {
    pub fn new(api_key: String, base_url: Option<String>) -> Self
    pub async fn provision_gpu_instance(&self, config: GpuInstanceConfig) -> Result<GpuInstance>
    pub async fn wait_for_instance_ready(&self, instance_id: &str, timeout_minutes: u32) -> Result<GpuInstance>
    pub async fn get_instance(&self, instance_id: &str) -> Result<GpuInstance>
    pub async fn run_gpu_tests(&self, instance: &GpuInstance, test_config: &GpuTestConfig) -> Result<GpuTestResults>
    pub async fn terminate_instance(&self, instance_id: &str) -> Result<()>
    pub async fn list_available_gpu_types(&self) -> Result<Vec<String>>
}
```

### Configuration Types

```rust
pub struct GpuInstanceConfig {
    pub gpu_type: String,           // nvidia, amd, intel, apple-silicon
    pub duration_minutes: u32,      // Instance lifetime
    pub instance_type: Option<String>, // Auto-selected if None
    pub labels: Option<Vec<String>>,   // Custom labels
}

pub struct GpuTestConfig {
    pub test_command: String,       // Command to execute
    pub timeout_minutes: u32,       // Test timeout
    pub env_vars: Option<HashMap<String, String>>, // Environment variables
    pub working_dir: Option<String>, // Working directory
}
```

## Future Enhancements

### Planned Features

1. **Advanced GPU Testing**
   - CUDA/ROCm kernel testing
   - Memory bandwidth benchmarks
   - Multi-GPU coordination tests

2. **Cost Analytics**
   - Test cost tracking
   - Optimization recommendations
   - Budget alerts

3. **Integration Improvements**
   - Webhook notifications
   - Slack/Teams integration
   - Custom test configurations

### Contributing

To contribute to the Hot Aisle integration:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
3. **Add tests** for new functionality
4. **Update documentation**
5. **Submit a pull request**

## Support

For issues related to:

- **GPU Kill**: Create an issue in this repository
- **Hot Aisle API**: Contact Hot Aisle support
- **Integration**: Check the troubleshooting section above

## License

This integration is part of GPU Kill and follows the same license terms.

Commit message:

Fix Hot Aisle integration compilation errors and make it optional
- Fix 'borrow of moved value' errors in hotaisle_client.rs by extracting status before consuming response
- Make Hot Aisle integration optional with 'hotaisle' feature flag
- Update Cargo.toml to include hotaisle feature
- Update lib.rs to conditionally compile hotaisle_client module
- Update GitHub Actions workflow to use --features hotaisle
- Update documentation to clarify Hot Aisle is optional
- Update README to show how to build with Hot Aisle feature

This resolves the compilation errors while keeping Hot Aisle integration
as an optional feature that doesn't affect the core GPU Kill functionality.

docs/HOTAISLE_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# Hot Aisle Integration for GPU Testing

This document describes the **optional** integration between GPU Kill and Hot Aisle's infrastructure for automated GPU testing in CI/CD pipelines.

> **Note**: Hot Aisle integration is an optional feature that must be enabled with the `hotaisle` feature flag.

## Overview

The Hot Aisle integration enables GPU Kill to run comprehensive tests on real GPU hardware by:

1. **Provisioning GPU instances** on-demand via Hot Aisle's API
2. **Running GPU tests** on actual hardware (NVIDIA, AMD, Intel, Apple Silicon)
3. **Automated cleanup** to minimize costs
4. **Comprehensive reporting** of test results

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   GitHub        │    │   Hot Aisle     │    │   GPU Hardware  │
│   Actions       │◄──►│   API           │◄──►│   (NVIDIA/AMD)  │
│   (CI/CD)       │    │   (Backend)     │    │   (Intel/Apple) │
└─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
```

## Components

### 1. Hot Aisle API Client (`src/hotaisle_client.rs`)

Rust client for interacting with Hot Aisle's API:

```rust
use gpukill::hotaisle_client::{HotAisleClient, GpuInstanceConfig};

let client = HotAisleClient::new(api_key, None);

let config = GpuInstanceConfig {
    gpu_type: "nvidia".to_string(),
    duration_minutes: 30,
    instance_type: Some("g4dn.xlarge".to_string()),
    labels: Some(vec!["ci-test".to_string()]),
};

let instance = client.provision_gpu_instance(config).await?;
```

### 2. GPU Test Script (`scripts/run-gpu-tests.sh`)

Comprehensive test script that runs on provisioned instances:

- **GPU Detection Tests**: Verify GPU enumeration and information retrieval
- **Vendor-Specific Tests**: NVIDIA (nvidia-smi), AMD (rocm-smi, amd-smi), Intel (intel_gpu_top)
- **Performance Tests**: Run GPU hardware tests and benchmarks
- **Stress Tests**: Multiple iterations to ensure reliability
- **Report Generation**: Detailed test reports with system information

### 3. GitHub Actions Workflow (`.github/workflows/hotaisle-gpu-testing.yml`)

Automated CI/CD pipeline that:

- **Provisions GPU instances** based on matrix strategy
- **Deploys GPU Kill** to instances
- **Runs comprehensive tests** on real hardware
- **Collects results** and uploads artifacts
- **Cleans up instances** automatically

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Enable Hot Aisle Feature

Build GPU Kill with the Hot Aisle feature enabled:

```bash
# Build with Hot Aisle integration
cargo build --release --features hotaisle

# Or install with Hot Aisle integration
cargo install --path . --features hotaisle
```

### 2. Hot Aisle API Key

Add your Hot Aisle API key to GitHub Secrets:

```bash
# In your GitHub repository settings:
# Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions → New repository secret
# Name: HOTAISLE_API_KEY
# Value: your-hotaisle-api-key
```

### 3. Configure GPU Types

The workflow supports testing multiple GPU types:

```yaml
# Default configuration
matrix:
  gpu_type: [nvidia, amd, intel]

# Manual dispatch with custom GPU types
# Use workflow_dispatch with inputs:
# gpu_types: "nvidia,amd,intel,apple-silicon"
```

### 4. Test Duration

Configure test duration to balance thoroughness with cost:

```yaml
# Default: 30 minutes
# Can be overridden via workflow_dispatch
test_duration: "30"  # minutes
```

## Usage

### Automatic Testing

GPU tests run automatically on:
- **Main branch** pushes
- **Develop branch** pushes
- **Pull requests** to main branch

### Manual Testing

Trigger tests manually via GitHub Actions:

1. Go to **Actions** tab in your repository
2. Select **Hot Aisle GPU Testing** workflow
3. Click **Run workflow**
4. Configure parameters:
   - **GPU types**: Comma-separated list (e.g., `nvidia,amd,intel`)
   - **Test duration**: Minutes (e.g., `30`)

### Local Testing

Test the integration locally:

```bash
# Build GPU Kill
cargo build --release

# Run GPU tests (requires GPU hardware)
./scripts/run-gpu-tests.sh nvidia
```

## Supported GPU Types

| GPU Type | Tools Used | Tests |
|----------|------------|-------|
| **NVIDIA** | nvidia-smi, NVML | GPU enumeration, memory, utilization, temperature, power |
| **AMD** | rocm-smi, amd-smi | GPU enumeration, memory, utilization, temperature, power |
| **Intel** | intel_gpu_top | GPU enumeration, utilization, memory estimation |
| **Apple Silicon** | system_profiler | GPU enumeration, memory usage, Metal processes |

## Cost Optimization

### 1. Instance Lifecycle Management

- **Automatic provisioning** only when needed
- **Immediate cleanup** after tests complete
- **Timeout protection** to prevent runaway costs

### 2. Test Duration Control

- **Configurable duration** (default: 30 minutes)
- **Fast failure** for quick feedback
- **Comprehensive testing** when needed

### 3. Resource Efficiency

- **Parallel testing** across GPU types
- **Shared infrastructure** via Hot Aisle
- **No always-on runners** required

## Test Results

### Artifacts

Each test run produces:

- **Test Output Log**: Detailed execution logs
- **Test Report**: Comprehensive system and GPU information
- **Retention**: 30 days for debugging

### Metrics

Tests measure:

- **GPU Detection**: Number of GPUs found
- **Information Retrieval**: JSON validity and completeness
- **Performance**: Test execution time
- **Reliability**: Stress test success rate

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Instance Provisioning Fails**
   - Check Hot Aisle API key validity
   - Verify GPU type availability
   - Check Hot Aisle service status

2. **SSH Connection Issues**
   - Verify instance IP address
   - Check SSH key generation
   - Ensure instance is ready

3. **Test Failures**
   - Review test output logs
   - Check GPU driver installation
   - Verify tool availability (nvidia-smi, rocm-smi, etc.)

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging:

```bash
export RUST_LOG=debug
export RUST_BACKTRACE=1
```

## API Reference

### HotAisleClient

```rust
impl HotAisleClient {
    pub fn new(api_key: String, base_url: Option<String>) -> Self
    pub async fn provision_gpu_instance(&self, config: GpuInstanceConfig) -> Result<GpuInstance>
    pub async fn wait_for_instance_ready(&self, instance_id: &str, timeout_minutes: u32) -> Result<GpuInstance>
    pub async fn get_instance(&self, instance_id: &str) -> Result<GpuInstance>
    pub async fn run_gpu_tests(&self, instance: &GpuInstance, test_config: &GpuTestConfig) -> Result<GpuTestResults>
    pub async fn terminate_instance(&self, instance_id: &str) -> Result<()>
    pub async fn list_available_gpu_types(&self) -> Result<Vec<String>>
}
```

### Configuration Types

```rust
pub struct GpuInstanceConfig {
    pub gpu_type: String,           // nvidia, amd, intel, apple-silicon
    pub duration_minutes: u32,      // Instance lifetime
    pub instance_type: Option<String>, // Auto-selected if None
    pub labels: Option<Vec<String>>,   // Custom labels
}

pub struct GpuTestConfig {
    pub test_command: String,       // Command to execute
    pub timeout_minutes: u32,       // Test timeout
    pub env_vars: Option<HashMap<String, String>>, // Environment variables
    pub working_dir: Option<String>, // Working directory
}
```

## Future Enhancements

### Planned Features

1. **Advanced GPU Testing**
   - CUDA/ROCm kernel testing
   - Memory bandwidth benchmarks
   - Multi-GPU coordination tests

2. **Cost Analytics**
   - Test cost tracking
   - Optimization recommendations
   - Budget alerts

3. **Integration Improvements**
   - Webhook notifications
   - Slack/Teams integration
   - Custom test configurations

### Contributing

To contribute to the Hot Aisle integration:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
3. **Add tests** for new functionality
4. **Update documentation**
5. **Submit a pull request**

## Support

For issues related to:

- **GPU Kill**: Create an issue in this repository
- **Hot Aisle API**: Contact Hot Aisle support
- **Integration**: Check the troubleshooting section above

## License

This integration is part of GPU Kill and follows the same license terms.
